---
title: "Joint delay-doppler estimation performance in a dual source context"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-11-27-RS-joint
excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 1. The number 2 is left for future work.'
date: 2020-11-27
venue: 'Remote Sensing'
paperurl: 'http://clubeigt.github.io/files/2020_RS_joint.pdf'
doi: '10.3390/rs12233894'
citation: '<b>Corentin Lubeigt</b>, Lorenzo Ortega, Jordi Vilà-Valls, Laurent Lestarquit, Eric Chaumette, &quot;Joint delay-doppler estimation performance in a dual source context,&quot; <i>Remote Sensing</i>, 2020, 12(23), 3894'
---
Evaluating the time-delay, Doppler effect and carrier phase of a received signal is a challenging estimation problem that was addressed in a large variety of remote sensing applications. This problem becomes more difficult and less understood when the signal is reflected off one or multiple surfaces and interferes with itself at the receiver stage. This phenomenon might deteriorate the overall system performance, as for the multipath effect in Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS), and mitigation strategies must be accounted for. In other applications such as GNSS reflectometry (GNSS-R) it may be interesting to estimate the parameters of the reflected signal to deduce the geometry and the surface characteristics. In either case, a better understanding of this estimation problem is directly brought by the corresponding lower performance bounds. In the high signal-to-noise ratio regime of the Gaussian conditional signal model, the Cramér-Rao bound (CRB) provides an accurate lower bound in the mean square error sense. In this article, we derive a new compact CRB expression for the joint time-delay and Doppler estimation in a dual source context, considering a band-limited signal and its specular reflection. These compact CRBs are expressed in terms of the baseband signal samples, making them especially easy to use whatever the baseband signal considered, therefore being valid for a variety of remote sensors. This extends existing results in the single source context and opens the door to a plethora of usages to be discussed in the article. The proposed CRB expressions are validated in two representative navigation and radar examples.

[Download paper here](http://clubeigt.github.io/files/2020_RS_joint.pdf)

Recommended citation: Corentin Lubeigt, Lorenzo Ortega, Jordi Vilà-Valls, Laurent Lestarquit, Eric Chaumette, &quot;Joint delay-doppler estimation performance in a dual source context,&quot; <i>Remote Sensing</i>, <b>2020</b>, 12(23), 3894.