---
title: "On the impact and mitigation of signal crosstalk in ground-based and low altitude airborne GNSS-R"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-11-27-RS-crosstalk
excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 2. The number 3 is left for future work.'
date: 2021-03-12
venue: 'Remote Sensing'
doi: '10.3390/rs13061085'
---
Global Navigation Satellite System Reflectometry (GNSS-R) is a powerful way to retrieve information from a reflecting surface by exploiting GNSS as signals of opportunity. In dual antenna conventional GNSS-R architectures, the reflected signal is correlated with a clean replica to obtain the specular reflection point delay and Doppler estimates, which are further processed to obtain the GNSS-R product of interest. An important problem that may appear for low elevation satellites is signal crosstalk, that is the direct line-of-sight signal leaks into the antenna dedicated to the reflected signal. Such crosstalk may degrade the overall system performance if both signals are very close in time, similar to multipath in standard GNSS receivers, the reason why mitigation strategies must be accounted for. In this article: (i) we first provide a geometrical analysis to justify that the estimation performance is only affected for low height receivers; (ii) then, we analyze the impact of crosstalk if not taken into account, by comparing the single source conditional maximum likelihood estimator (CMLE) performance in a dual source context with the corresponding Cramér–Rao bound (CRB); (iii) we discuss dual source estimators as a possible mitigation strategy; and (iv) we investigate the performance of the so-called variance estimator, which is designed to eliminate the coherent signal part, compared to both the CRB and non-coherent dual source estimators. Simulation results are provided for representative GNSS signals to support the discussion. From this analysis, it is found that: (i) for low enough reflected-to-direct signal amplitude ratios (RDR), the crosstalk has no impact on standard single source CMLEs; (ii) for high enough signal-to-noise ratios (SNR), the dual source estimators are efficient irrespective of the RDR, then being a promising solution for any reflected signal scenario; (iii) non-coherent dual source estimators are also efficient at high SNR; and (iv) the variance estimator is efficient as long as the non-coherent part of the signal is dominant.

[Paper available here](http://clubeigt.github.io/files/2021_RS_crosstalk.pdf)

Recommended citation: Corentin Lubeigt, Lorenzo Ortega, Jordi Vilà-Valls, Laurent Lestarquit, Eric Chaumette, &quot;On the impact and mitigation of signal crosstalk in ground-based and low altitude airborne GNSS-R,&quot; <i>Remote Sensing</i>, <b>2021</b>, 13(6), 1085.